# Sememe Prediction
The code for **Lexical Sememe Prediction via Word Embeddings and Matrix Factorization**(IJCAI2017)

## Running Requirement
**Memory**: at least 8GB, 16GB or more is recommended.

**Storage**: at least 15GB, 20GB or more is recommended. 

## How to Run
1. Prepare a file that contains pre-trained Chinese word embeddings(of Google Word2Vec form).We recommend that the amount of words be at least 200,000 and the number of dimentions be at least 200. It will achieve much better result using a large ( 20GB or more is recommended.) corpus to train your embeddings for running this program.

2. Rename the word embedding file as 'embedding_200.txt' and put it under the directory.

3. Run data_generator.sh, the program will automatically generate evaluation data set and other data files required during training.

4. Run SPSE.sh/SPWE.sh/SPASE.sh . The corresponding model will be automatically training and evaluated. 
(As for SPASE model, it will take pretty much time for training. On a typical computer with CPU of 12 cores, it takes 3 days. For better performance, we suggest that user rewrite it in C++. Model.cpp serves as a simple example.)

5. Run Ensemble_Model.sh after you have run SPSE.sh and SPWE.sh. 

(Please check Ensemble_Model.sh, you will get more information about how to run other combinations of models (only support combining 2 models at once)

## Data Set
``hownet.txt`` is an Chinese knowledge base with annotated word-sense-sememe information
 
## Evaluation Set
 After you have run data_generator.sh, you will see 'hownet.txt_test' and 'hownet.txt_answer' file under the directory. These two files make the evaluation set. The size of the evaluation set is 10% of the full size of the part of embedding_200.txt which is anotated in hownet.txt. The evaluation set is generated by random choices.

## Result Files
Feel free to get insight of the files which are named after 'output_', these files contain the sememe predictions for  evaluation set. 

You can also use pickle library in python to load the files which are named after 'model_'. For more information, please refer to Ensemble_model.py. 

## Citation
If you use the code, please kindly cite the papers listed in our reference.

## References
[Auer et al., 2007] S ̈oren Auer, Christian Bizer, Georgi Kobilarov, Jens Lehmann, Richard Cyganiak, and Zachary Ives. Dbpedia: A nucleus for a web of open data. In The semantic web, pages 722–735. Springer, 2007. 
[Bloomfield, 1926] Leonard Bloomfield. A set of postulates for the science of language. Language, 2(3):153–164, 1926. 
[Bobadilla et al., 2013] Jesu ́s Bobadilla, Fernando Ortega, Antonio Hernando, and Abraham Gutie ́rrez. Recommender systems survey. Knowledge-based systems, 46:109–132, 2013. 
[Bollacker et al., 2008] Kurt Bollacker, Colin Evans, Praveen Paritosh, Tim Sturge, and Jamie Taylor. Freebase: a collaboratively created graph database for structuring human knowledge. In Proceedings of KDD, pages 1247–1250, 2008. 
[Dong and Dong, 2006] Zhendong Dong and Qiang Dong. HowNet and The Computation of Meaning. World Scientific, 2006. 
[Duan et al., 2007] Xiangyu Duan, Jun Zhao, and Bo Xu. Word sense disambiguation through sememe labeling. In Proceedings of IJCAI, pages 1594–1599, 2007. 
[Gan and Wong, 2000] Kok Wee Gan and Ping Wai Wong. Annotating information structures in chinese texts using hownet. In Proceedings of ACL, pages 85–92, 2000. 
[Gan et al., 2002] Kok-Wee Gan, Chi-Yung Wang, and Brian Mak. Knowledge-based sense pruning using the hownet: an alternative to word sense disambiguation. In International Symposium on Chinese Spoken Language Processing, 2002. 
[Goddard and Wierzbicka, 1994] Cliff Goddard and Anna Wierzbicka. Semantic and lexical universals: Theory and empirical findings, volume 25. John Benjamins Publishing, 1994. 
[Hinton, 1986] Geoffrey E Hinton. Learning distributed rep- resentations of concepts. In Proceedings of the eighth annual conference of the cognitive science society, volume 1, page 12. Amherst, MA, 1986. 
[Hoffart et al., 2013] Johannes Hoffart, Fabian M Suchanek, Klaus Berberich, and Gerhard Weikum. Yago2: A s- patially and temporally enhanced knowledge base from wikipedia. Artificial Intelligence, 194:28–61, 2013. 
[Huang et al., 2014] Minlie Huang, Borui Ye, Yichen Wang, Haiqiang Chen, Junjun Cheng, and Xiaoyan Zhu. New word detection for sentiment analysis. In Proceedings of ACL, pages 531–541, 2014. 
[Koren et al., 2009] Yehuda Koren, Robert Bell, and Chris Volinsky. Matrix factorization techniques for recommender systems. Computer, 42(8), 2009. 
[Levy and Goldberg, 2014] Omer Levy and Yoav Goldberg. Neural word embedding as implicit matrix factorization. In Proceedings of NIPS, pages 2177–2185, 2014. 
[Liu and Li, 2002] Qun Liu and Sujian Li. Word similarity computing based on how-net. Computational Linguistics and Chinese Language Processing, 7(2):59–76, 2002. 
[Mikolov et al., 2013] Tomas Mikolov, Kai Chen, Greg Corrado, and Jeffrey Dean. Efficient estimation of word representations in vector space. In Proceedings of ICLR, 2013. 
[Miller, 1995] George A Miller. Wordnet: a lexical database for english. Communications of the ACM, 38(11):39–41, 1995. 
[Mintz et al., 2009] Mike Mintz, Steven Bills, Rion Snow, and Dan Jurafsky. Distant supervision for relation extraction without labeled data. In Proceedings of ACL-IJCNLP, pages 1003–1011. Association for Computational Linguistics, 2009. 
[Nastase et al., 2013] Vivi Nastase, Preslav Nakov, Diarmuid O Seaghdha, and Stan Szpakowicz. Semantic relations between nominals. Synthesis Lectures on Human Language Technologies, 6(1):1–119, 2013. 
[Navigli and Ponzetto, 2012] Roberto Navigli and Simone Paolo Ponzetto. Babelnet: The automatic construction, evaluation and application of a wide-coverage multilingual semantic network. Artificial Intelligence, 193:217–250, 2012. 
[Pennington et al., 2014] Jeffrey Pennington, Richard Socher, and Christopher D Manning. Glove: Global vectors for word representation. In EMNLP, volume 14, pages 1532–43, 2014. 
[Rendle, 2010] Steffen Rendle. Factorization machines. In Proceedings of ICDM, pages 995–1000. IEEE, 2010. 
[Sarwar et al.,2001] Badrul Sarwar, George Karypis, Joseph Konstan, and John Riedl. Item-based collaborative filtering recommendation algorithms. In Proceedings of World Wide Web, pages 285–295. ACM, 2001. 




